excerpt -----
94. In "Cornell's Geography" there is an "Illustrated proof of the Form
of the Earth." A curved line on which is represented a ship in four
positions, as she sails away from an observer, is an arc of 72 degrees,
or one-fifth of the supposed circumference of the "globe"--about 5,000
miles. Ten such ships as those which are given in the picture would
reach the full length of the "arc," making 500 miles as the length
of the ship. The man, in the picture, who is watching the ship as she
sails away, is about 200 miles high; and the tower, from which he takes
an elevated view, at least 500 miles high. These are the proportions,
then, of men, towers, and ships which are necessary in order to see
a ship, in her different positions, as she "rounds the curve" of the
"great hill of water" over which she is supposed to be sailing: for,
it must be remembered that this supposed "proof" depends upon lines
and angles of vision which, if enlarged, would still retain their
characteristics. Now, since ships are not built 500 miles long,
with masts in proportion, and men are not quite 200 miles high,
it is not what it is said to be--a proof of rotundity--but, either
an ignorant farce or a cruel piece of deception. In short, it is a
proof that the Earth is not a globe.
excerpt -----
48. In Mr. Proctor's "Lessons in Astronomy," page 15, a ship is
represented as sailing away from the observer, and it is given in
five positions or distances away on its journey. Now, in its first
position, its mast appears above the horizon, and, consequently,
higher than the observer's line of vision. But, in its second
and third positions, representing the ship as further and further
away, it is drawn higher and still higher up above the line of the
horizon! Now, it is utterly impossible for a ship to sail away from
an observer, under the conditions indicated, and to appear as given
in the picture. Consequently, the picture is a misrepresentation, a
fraud, and a disgrace. A ship starting to sail away from an observer
with her masts above his line of sight would appear, indisputably, to
go down and still lower down towards the horizon line, and could not
possibly appear--to anyone with his vision undistorted--as going in any
other direction, curved or straight. Since, then, the design of the
astronomer-artist is to show the Earth to be a globe, and the points
in the picture, which would only prove the Earth to be cylindrical if
true, are NOT true, it follows that the astronomer-artist fails to
prove, pictorially, either that the Earth is a globe or a cylinder,
and that we have, therefore, a reasonable proof that the Earth is
not a globe.
excerpt -----
32. It is often said that, if the Earth were flat, we could see all
over it! This is the result of ignorance. If we stand on the level
surface of a plain or a prairie, and take notice, we shall find that
the horizon is formed at about three miles all around us: that is,
the ground appears to rise up until, at that distance, it seems on
a level with the eye-line or line of sight. Consequently, objects no
higher than we stand--say, six feet--and which are at that distance
(three miles), have reached the "vanishing point," and are beyond
the sphere of our unaided vision. This is the reason why the hull
of a ship disappears (in going away from us) before the sails; and,
instead of there being about it the faintest shadow of evidence of
the Earth's rotundity, it is a clear proof that Earth is not a globe.
excerpt -----
33. If the Earth were a globe, people--except those on the top--would,
certainly, have to be "fastened" to its surface by some means or
other, whether by the "attraction" of astronomers or by some other
undiscovered and undiscoverable process! But, as we know that we
simply walk on its surface without any other aid than that which is
necessary for locomotion on a plane, it follows that we have, herein,
a conclusive proof that Earth is not a globe.